Now that we have some Docker files available for ASP.NET Core,
let's take a look at how we could build those.
The normal command you're going to use to convert a
Docker file into a image is Docker build.
Now what you're going to do, though, is tag it,
and the tag is going to contain a couple things normally.
Number one,
if you're going to publish this up to a registry such as Docker Hub or
Azure Container Registry or something like that,
you're going to have a username, typically. It could be
your team's name, maybe it's you, for instance,
on Docker Hub. I use danwahlin, that's my username, and that's going to be the
first part. Now that is technically optional if you're just working locally,
but as you start to work with registries out there,
you'll want a username.
Then we can put a slash, and then we can put the name of the
actual image, and then we can even put a version, and I'll
show you some of that coming up.
So this tag that you see here, this ‑t, that's shortcut for ‑‑tag. Then
you have the tag name, and then you have to tell it where is the actual
Dockerfile you're going to be building from. You might have to use a ‑f
switch; ‑f would be the file name, and give it a path, but if it's just
called Dockerfile, you could just put the dot that you have right here.
But if it's not, then you have to give it, where is the Dockerfile?
What's the path to it, if it's named differently?
So that's what we can do to actually build an image; it's very, very simple.
So let's take a look at that.
So coming back in,
we have our dev version where we can hook this up to the
local source code through a volume,
and this has everything I kind of need to run the SDK in a container.
We saw something like this earlier. So I could come in and do this.
We could copy that.
Let's go ahead and open a terminal. Now we could copy that in and run it,
but that's going to run the Dockerfile, because we didn't give it another name.
Now, before I do all this,
let me go ahead and let's just get rid of this for now, and
let's do docker build help, ‑‑help here.
Alright, now if we scroll on up,
you're going to notice that we can use a ‑f. We can give it the name of the
Docker file, because the default path is Docker file.
So we'll paste that back in,
and we'll come on in, and we'll add a ‑f, and we'll
update the image name as well.
But we'll give this dev.docker file, or whatever your file
name is, and let's put an image name in.
And I'm just going to call this aspnetcore‑dev.
Now,
I don't have a username in that case, notice,
because I'm not going to publish this.
But if I was, like to Docker Hub, it would be danwahlin/ like that, and
that way it would be whatever your username is. Now,
I can also tag it with a version.
We can say this is version 1.0 or 2.0 or whatever it is.
If you don't tag it,
it becomes what's called latest. Latest is it doesn't really have a
version per se, it's just when somebody pulls it,
they get whatever the latest version is. That can actually
be a little bit dangerous, so I would recommend that you
do tag them with versions, but we'll keep it pretty simple here.
Alright, so I'll hit Enter and there we go.
It just did the build.
Let's clear. Let's go to docker images. And there we go.
There's our aspnetcore‑dev latest, it looks like it's
about 705MB, because it's the SDK,
so it's going to be a little bit bigger. Now another way we
could have done this is instead of first off, looking there for
the images, if we come on in here, we could also find it.
There's aspnetcore‑dev, latest. So aspnetcore‑dev, let's remember. Now.
I could have done this, though, and I showed you a little bit of this earlier.
We could actually right‑click and build, and then give it a name,
aspnetcore‑dev, and then I could give it a version if I wanted, but let's
just hit that. Now this will do the same exact thing,
but notice if I scroll back up, it actually wrote out the Docker build.
It did some other things,
but the big one is it did ‑f dev.dockerfile, and it tagged
it, and then it gave it the local folder.
So there we go.
It just built it.
Now we could use what's in this file. So we could
come on down, and let's copy this, paste it in,
and then we'll get rid of this, and we'll put the name of our image,
which is aspnetcore‑dev.
Now notice we have the app folder linking back
volume wise to my local code again.
And just as a reminder, what you put there depends on the console you use.
So this will work with Linux or Mac or Bash or SH‑type shells.
But if you're on Windows, it depends.
So I showed that a little bit earlier.
Alright, so let's hit Enter there, and this should now fire up the container.
Now this kind of locked it up, because I didn't do ‑d for
detached, but that's okay. Now if we scroll on up,
it's listening on port 5000. We said to go to 8080 to 5000.
So let's pull up the browser.
Alright, so we'll go to localhost 8080, and there we go.
It's working. Now if that didn't work, remember that I talked about
that through a properties folder and through the launch settings, you
can also control the port that it runs on.
So if that's in your project,
it may be overriding what was actually included here in the Dockerfile.
Last one kind of wins,
so just kind of be careful. If you go to that and it's not working,
it's probably because your port is wrong.
Because maybe you have a properties with the launch settings, and you
need to actually change that port, potentially.
Alright,
now let's do a docker ps ‑a, and you'll notice that we
have a status of up two minutes ago.
It's been up for two minutes.
Let's go ahead and stop this one.
So we'll do docker stop b8, and docker remove b8.
Alright, and then docker ps ‑a. You can see it's all gone.
Alright, now for the production one, to get that one running,
I could use the one they generated. Now I'll give you a little gotcha on this.
They didn't say the actual port for Kestrel to run on.
They did expose port 5000, but if you look in the other prod.dockerfile
I have here, notice I have an environment variable.
Alright, if you don't put that,
then it just is going to default, and the default is 80, and that's fine.
You could leave 80 if you'd like,
but I just want to point out that again, sometimes you'll bring
these up, and you'll just get not found, and you sit there and
struggle going, why isn't this working?
Probably a port issue. So you'll have to kind of figure out if
you're using the right port. Now for this one, I'm going to go
ahead and use the Dockerfile they generated,
but I could do this one as well.
So if I right‑click on this, notice I could build it again.
So let's go ahead and do that. Now, for this one,
it's actually going to name it, kind of based on what the project is.
Alright,
so notice it's aspnetcoredocker31, because that's
what the project name up here was.
And that's fine.
We'll go ahead and leave that. now if I come into the Docker icon, and
let's refresh this. There we go, there's our image, latest. Now I can
right‑click on that, and I can actually run from here.
Now when I do run, notice it's going to start it up, and you'll see that it
did this 5000 to 5000, and it looks like it started up.
So let's go ahead and do docker ps ‑a, and it's been up for 11
seconds, but it did 5000, you'll notice.
Okay, and then because we exposed 5000, it did 5000 there as well.
So let's go back to the browser.
So let's come on into :5000 here, and notice it didn't work.
Kestrel never ran on 5000; it actually ran on port 80.
So let's go back to VS Code and see if we can fix this.
Alright, so I'm going to go ahead and stop it.
We'll say, docker stop f0. And then if I hit the up arrow here,
there's the docker run that it did, but the 5000 on the left
is fine, because maybe that's what we want.
We did 8080 before,
but doesn't really matter, but the problem is this 5000 right here.
We never told Kestrel to run on 5000. We don't have a launch settings.
We didn't put the environment variable that I showed
earlier. So it's kind of defaulting to 80.
Let's go ahead and try this again now. Alright, so it's up and running.
You can notice right here that it shows us it's running.
And from here we can even do things. I can right‑click and view logs.
Let's go ahead and do that real quick. And notice it's on port 80
inside. And again, this is one of the big challenges you'll run into is
sometimes it doesn't work because of the ports.
So let's go back to the browser to wrap up.
We'll go to 5000, which now forwards to 80, and now it works.
So kind of be careful if you use the Docker extension.
Sometimes it will assume the port internally is 5000 in this case,
but it was actually 80. So you might have to tweak
that a little bit in some cases.
So that's an example of different ways we can build images.
We did a dev image with a volume, and then we did a production image,
and I showed how you can do it through the command line or using the Docker extension.